# Neuroscience-Inspired Artificial Intelligence  

Demis Hassabis,1,2,\* Dharshan Kumaran,1,3 Christopher Summerfield,1,4 and Matthew Botvinick1,2   
1DeepMind, 5 New Street Square, London, UK   
2Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, 25 Howland Street, London, UK   
3Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, 17 Queen Square, London, UK   
4Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK   
\*Correspondence: dhcontact@google.com   
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2017.06.011  

The fields of neuroscience and artificial intelligence (AI) have a long and intertwined history. In more recent times, however, communication and collaboration between the two fields has become less commonplace. In this article, we argue that better understanding biological brains could play a vital role in building intelligent machines. We survey historical interactions between the AI and neuroscience fields and emphasize current advances in AI that have been inspired by the study of neural computation in humans and other animals. We conclude by highlighting shared themes that may be key for advancing future research in both fields.  

In recent years, rapid progress has been made in the related fields of neuroscience and artificial intelligence (AI). At the dawn of the computer age, work on AI was inextricably intertwined with neuroscience and psychology, and many of the early pioneers straddled both fields, with collaborations between these disciplines proving highly productive (Churchland and Sejnowski, 1988; Hebb, 1949; Hinton et al., 1986; Hopfield, 1982; McCulloch and Pitts, 1943; Turing, 1950). However, more recently, the interaction has become much less commonplace, as both subjects have grown enormously in complexity and disciplinary boundaries have solidified. In this review, we argue for the critical and ongoing importance of neuroscience in generating ideas that will accelerate and guide AI research (see Hassabis commentary in Brooks et al., 2012).  

We begin with the premise that building human-level general AI (or ‘‘Turing-powerful’’ intelligent systems; Turing, 1936) is a daunting task, because the search space of possible solutions is vast and likely only very sparsely populated. We argue that this therefore underscores the utility of scrutinizing the inner workings of the human brain— the only existing proof that such an intelligence is even possible. Studying animal cognition and its neural implementation also has a vital role to play, as it can provide a window into various important aspects of higherlevel general intelligence.  

The benefits to developing AI of closely examining biological intelligence are two-fold. First, neuroscience provides a rich source of inspiration for new types of algorithms and architectures, independent of and complementary to the mathematical and logic-based methods and ideas that have largely dominated traditional approaches to AI. For example, were a new facet of biological computation found to be critical to supporting a cognitive function, then we would consider it an excellent candidate for incorporation into artificial systems. Second, neuroscience can provide validation of AI techniques that already exist. If a known algorithm is subsequently found to be implemented in the brain, then that is strong support for its plausibility as an integral component of an overall general intelligence system. Such clues can be critical to a long-term research program when determining where to allocate resources most productively. For example, if an algorithm is not quite attaining the level of performance required or expected, but we observe it is core to the functioning of the brain, then we can surmise that redoubled engineering efforts geared to making it work in artificial systems are likely to pay off.  

Of course from a practical standpoint of building an AI system, we need not slavishly enforce adherence to biological plausibility. From an engineering perspective, what works is ultimately all that matters. For our purposes then, biological plausibility is a guide, not a strict requirement. What we are interested in is a systems neuroscience-level understanding of the brain, namely the algorithms, architectures, functions, and representations it utilizes. This roughly corresponds to the top two levels of the three levels of analysis that Marr famously stated are required to understand any complex biological system (Marr and Poggio, 1976): the goals of the system (the computational level) and the process and computations that realize this goal (the algorithmic level). The precise mechanisms by which this is physically realized in a biological substrate are less relevant here (the implementation level). Note this is where our approach to neuroscience-inspired AI differs from other initiatives, such as the Blue Brain Project (Markram, 2006) or the field of neuromorphic computing systems (Esser et al., 2016), which attempt to closely mimic or directly reverse engineer the specifics of neural circuits (albeit with different goals in mind). By focusing on the computational and algorithmic levels, we gain transferrable insights into general mechanisms of brain function, while leaving room to accommodate the distinctive opportunities and challenges that arise when building intelligent machines in silico.  

The following sections unpack these points by considering the past, present, and future of the AI-neuroscience interface. Before beginning, we offer a clarification. Throughout this article, we employ the terms ‘‘neuroscience’’ and ‘‘AI.’’ We use these terms in the widest possible sense. When we say neuroscience, we mean to include all fields that are involved with the study of the brain, the behaviors that it generates, and the mechanisms by which it does so, including cognitive neuroscience, systems neuroscience and psychology. When we say AI, we mean work  